Well, if you’re like me,
you may need to review
some of these points sometimes.
We had the parable of the virgins explained
in The Watchtower some time ago.
But let’s try to review the parable
and see what we can remember.
Now, we know that there are ten virgins,
and all of them are waiting
for a bridegroom to come.
Now, there are
five wise virgins, or discreet virgins,
and then there are five foolish virgins.
And there’s a difference.
The wise are prepared for any contingency.
They not only have oil in their lamps
but they have extra oil as well.
And you can be sure
that it’s virgin olive oil.
Now, the wise virgins,
why do they have so much oil?
Because they’re willing
to wait until the bridegroom comes.
They must love the bridegroom very much.
And they know that it’s all about him;
it’s not about them.
They want somebody to be on hand
when the bridegroom arrives.
The foolish virgins
—well, they’re willing to wait for a while.
But the bridegroom had better hurry up
because they only have
a little bit of oil in their lamp,
and they have no extra oil at all.
They’re primarily concerned with themselves.
Well, the bridegroom doesn’t come right away,
and all of the virgins fall asleep.
But in the middle
of the night, there is a cry,
apparently in the distance:
“Here is the bridegroom!”
But the bridegroom
still doesn’t make an appearance.
Well, the virgins awaken,
they dress their lamps,
they put their lamps in order,
and they wait.
And still the bridegroom doesn’t come.
The lamps
of the foolish virgins begin to flicker,
and they realize
that they’re going to run out of oil.
So they ask the wise
to share some of their oil with them,
and the wise refuse.
Why?
Because they’re selfish?
No.
Because they’re wise.
If they share some of their oil
with the foolish virgins,
then the wise will run out
and the foolish will run out
and then no one will be
on hand to greet the bridegroom.
And really, it’s all about the bridegroom.
They want someone to be on hand
to hail the bridegroom when he arrives.
So, what do the foolish do?
They rush off to find an all-night 7-Eleven
or Walmart that might be selling oil
—like that’s going
to happen in the first century.
And in the meantime, while they’re gone,
the bridegroom arrives
and the wise virgins
are ushered into the wedding feast.
Well, now this is
a parable for the last days.
How do we know that?
Because everything in Matthew 24 and 25
relates to the last days.
So we’re talking
about something that occurs
during Jesus’ presence.
Whom do the virgins represent?
All of the anointed.
Not just “the faithful and discreet slave”
but all of the anointed.
Now, that’s quite a statement.
How would you prove that?
What scripture would you point to to prove
that the virgins represent all
of the anointed and not just a small class
—small group—
like “the faithful and discreet slave”?
Our go-to scripture is Luke chapter 12.
Let’s turn there.
And now, this is not
a parallel scripture to Matthew 24.
This is Jesus talking about
the same subject on another occasion,
but this will clarify matters for us.
Luke chapter 12,
and first we’ll read
verse 32 to get the context.
He says: “Have no fear, little flock.”
Well, who constitute the “little flock”?
All of the anointed, right?
“Have no fear, little flock,
for your Father has approved
of giving you the Kingdom.”
So he’s talking to all of the anointed.
And what does he say
to them in verses 35 and 36?
See if you can see
the similarity with what we just read.
“Be dressed and ready
“and have your lamps burning,
“and you should be like men waiting
for their master to return from the marriage,
so when he comes and knocks,
they may at once open to him.”
Do you see the similarity
between Matthew 24 and Luke 12?
So now Jesus is addressing these words
to all of the anointed.
Now, in the parable there’s an interval
between the cry “Here is the bridegroom!”
and the coming of the bridegroom.
Now what about the fulfillment?
When do you think the cry went up,
“Here is the bridegroom”?
You’re right, 1914.
But the bridegroom didn’t come just then.
When does he come?
At the great tribulation.
How do we know?
We know because in Matthew 24 and 25,
there are eight references
to the coming of the Master,
and each and every one of them
refer to the great tribulation.
So we’re talking
about the Master returning
—the bridegroom coming
at the great tribulation.
And will he find the anointed
with their lamps burning,
or will they have let their light go out?
That is the simple question there.
Now, is Jesus saying that many
of the anointed would be found unfaithful
when the great tribulation breaks out?
No.
Remember what we said
about the evil slave
referred to in Matthew 24?
He talks
about a “faithful and discreet slave,”
and then he talks about an evil slave.
And we learn that Jesus is not saying
that there is
a separate “faithful and discreet slave”
and then a separate and distinct evil slave.
But rather, he is saying,
if the faithful slave becomes evil,
then he cannot expect the Master’s favor.
And it’s the same
with the parable of the virgins.
He’s saying,
if any of the anointed
did allow their light to go out,
they could not expect
the favor of the bridegroom
and be allowed to enter
into the wedding feast.
Well, that’s very interesting.
But that’s quite a statement, isn’t it?
And some have had
questions about the evil slave
and whether the Bible really allows
for the faithful slave becoming evil
or whether it’s a separate group.
And the reason why
they’ve raised the question
is because of the way Jesus
put it in Matthew chapter 24.
Let’s just check it
—Matthew 24.
Now, we know in verse 45,
Jesus said: “Who really is
the faithful and discreet slave?”
Verse 46:
“Happy is that slave
if his master on coming
finds him doing so!”
But then, in verse 48, he says:
“But if ever that evil slave says
“in his heart, ‘My master is delaying,’”
and then, in verse 50:
“The master . . . will come . . .
and he will punish him
with the greatest severity.”
So they’ve looked at the expression
“if ever that evil slave” and they’ve said,
“Well, doesn’t that allow
for a separate evil slave?”
And we say no.
But why do we say that?
Just look at the end of verse 48.
Do you see at the very end
of verse 48 there’s a little “j”?
It’s a marginal reference.
Now, notice the marginal reference to “j.”
It returns us to our go-to scripture,
Luke chapter 12,
this time verses 45 and 46.
So let’s see
if that will shed some light on this.
Let’s turn to Luke chapter 12,
and we’re going
to start reading from verse 42.
And remember what we’re trying to discover:
Is Jesus talking about two different groups
—a faithful slave and an evil slave?
Or is he talking
about the faithful slave becoming evil?
See if the way he puts it
on this occasion clarifies it for you.
Starting with verse 42:
“Who really is the faithful steward,
“the discreet one, whom his master
will appoint over his body of attendants
“to keep giving them their measure
of food supplies at the proper time?
“Happy is that slave
“if his master on coming finds him doing so!
I tell you truthfully,
he will appoint him over all his belongings.”
Well, we’re on track, aren’t we?
This is what Jesus
was talking about in Matthew 24.
But now notice the way he puts it
according to verse 45:
“But if ever that slave,”
the same slave that’s mentioned
in verse 43: “Happy is that slave.”
“If ever that slave should say in his heart,
“‘My master delays coming,’
“and starts to beat
the male and female servants
“and to eat and drink
and get drunk, the master of that slave
“will come on a day
that he is not expecting him
“and at an hour that he does not know,
and he will punish him
with the greatest severity.”
He’s talking about the same slave, isn’t he?
If that slave is faithful,
he will be rewarded;
if that slave is unfaithful,
he will be punished.
And it’s the same
with the parable of the virgins.
If the virgins are faithful,
they will be rewarded;
if not, they will be punished.
This parable does have
relevance to the “great crowd.”
How do we know?
Mark 13:37, Jesus said:
“What I say to you, I say to all:
Keep on the watch.”
So just as the anointed have to be found
faithful at the great tribulation,
those of the great crowd
have to be found faithful as well.
So in very simple terms,
how would you sum up
the lesson of the parable of the virgins?
Keep on the watch!